```
         __                __ 
  ____ _/ /_  ____  __  __/ /_
 / __ `/ __ \/ __ \/ / / / __/
/ /_/ / /_/ / /_/ / /_/ / /_  
\__,_/_.___/\____/\__,_/\__/  
                             
```

=> /index.gmi Return Home
=> ./index.gmi Back to Previous

# About Rick Dangerous

I was 4 years old when I played my first video game console the Atari 2600. I remember having so much fun playing with my brothers Decathlon, Breakout, H.E.R.O etc I loved how the artworks looked on the cartridges and the design of the system.

A few years later we got the spectrum 48k the rubber key version. Taking it in turns on games like Rescue, Skool, Daze or playing 2 players on games like Gauntlet and Double Dragon. This is much beloved system which always stays in my memory. We had an Amstrad CPC, but this did not last as long but enjoyed the time I had with it.

When I was 9 I got a Sega Master System and the older systems were not being used anymore. This seemed to be the way now, each new system which came out I wanted to have and play. 

When the Amiga was released this was my go to system. Then eventually PC DOS and then Windows and now I am back to retro gaming.

I have been collecting gaming magazines since I was a small child and still do now in my 40's.

I was getting fed up of playing on modern systems so I started getting out my old systems to show my family, but found some did not work anymore and did not have the correct video outputs to play on modern televisions. 

I looked into emulation and tried LaunchBox and various other front ends on my personal computer but didn't click with any of them. I eventually stumbled on Arcadepunks and the Wolfanoz image and was excited to see all my favourite systems running with an easy to use frontend. My goal was to have it simple and fully working with the very best ROM sets which I would only be adding and testing myself. 

It started with 64 GB and became an obsession. All the game lists had to be improved as well as the artworks and even though I never used Photoshop before I taught myself how so I could improve everything myself. I spent the last few years compiling lists from retro gamer magazines of all the top rated games and adding them to the build. 

The final result is Never Ending Edition. Which I hope everyone gets lot of enjoyment with. And hopefully I have made the ability to play lots of these old systems easier to access for all.
