```
          ____  _      __         __                _ __   _ 
         / __ \(_)____/ /__      / /      _      __(_) /__(_)
        / /_/ / / ___/ //_/     / /      | | /| / / / //_/ /
       / _, _/ / /__/ ,<       / /      _| |/ |/ / / ,< / /
      /_/ |_/_/\___/_/|_|     / /      (_)__/|__/_/_/|_/_/
                             / /________________________
    ____                    /__________________________/  
   / __ \____  ____  ____  ___  _________  __  _______
  / / / / __ `/ __ \/ __ `/ _ \/ ___/ __ \/ / / / ___/
 / /_/ / /_/ / / / / /_/ /  __/ /  / /_/ / /_/ (__  )
/_____/\__,_/_/ /_/\__, /\___/_/   \____/\__,_/____/
                  /____/
```

# Welcome

Welcome to the official Rick Dangerous Project Wiki.   
This wiki mainly functions as a guide for using the Never Ending Edition RetroPie image by Rick Dangerous.

## The Rick Dangerous Project

Rick Dangerous loved playing games on various systems since he was a little kid. When he got into emulation he became obsessed and eventually released his disk images to be downloaded.

  The **Never Ending Edition** (NEE) is the newest creation by Rick Dangerous and it probably will be the last edition produced within this project.

  It is not completed yet and there will be a final release when it is. More about Rick Dangerous and his project in the about section.

=> ./about.gmi About

## Hardware

The hardware section will be used to primarely share recommendations of hardware to be used with RetroPie and especially the NEE.

=> /hardware/hardware.gmi NEE Recommended
=> /hardware/ricks_setup.gmi Rick Dangerous' Setup

## How To Guides

The How To section functions as a collection of guides by @RickDangerous and the community. These should help to understand basic features and processes in RetroPie and the NEE.

=> /guides/beginning.gmi How To Begin
=> /guides/controller.gmi How To Controller  
=> /guides/terminal.gmi How To Terminal  
=> /guides/emulationstation.gmi How To EmulationStation
=> /guides/games.gmi How To Games
=> /guides/retropie.gmi How To RetroPie
=> /guides/kodi.gmi How To Kodi

## Systems'n'Games

Systems'n'Games is all about the systems and games featured by the Never Ending Edition. For now it only containes lists of systems and game genres, more to come.

=> /systems/current.gmi NEE Included Systems
=> /systems/future.gmi NEE Future Additions
=> /systems/genres.gmi NEE Featured Genres

## FAQ

=> /faq.gmi FAQ

## Alterative DNS

This Capsule is also deployed via https on github.io.
=> https://azureorange404.github.io/DangerousWiki/ DangerousWiki
