```
         _________________________________
        |  _____________________________  |
        | |    _                        | |
        | |  _| |_           Nintendo   | |
        | | |_   _|           _    _    | |
        | |   |_|    == ==   |_|  |_|   | |
        | |_____________________________| |
        |_________________________________|

```
=> /index.gmi Return Home
=> ../beginning.gmi Back to Previous

# How To Check If My Image Is Corrupt (Find MD5 Checksum)?

The md5sum is designed to verify data integrity using MD5 (Message Digest Algorithm 5).
=> https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MD5 MD5 Wikipedia

## Using Windows   
_by @kerrz_

1. Open Windows Powershell 
2. Go to the folder where your image file is present
3. In that folder, write: "Get-FileHash filename.img -Algorithm MD5"
4. Wait. This will take a lot of time. When finished, a number will show, which is the MD5 checksum.

Or you can find the MD5 checksum (and others) of your image file utilizing Hashtab [implbits](http://implbits.com/) - thanks to @share-and-enjoy. 

If the link above does not work, try this: [cnet](https://download.cnet.com/HashTab/3000-2094_4-84837.html)

When Hashtab is installed, you go to the image file in windows explorer, right click it >> Properties >> Hash tab. Depending on the size of the file and your computer, it will take some time to calculate the MD5 and SHA1. 

## Using Linux
_by @AzureOrange_

1. Open your favourite Terminal
2. Create a checksum of your image (This may take up to an hour, so grab a coffee):   
`# md5sum /PATH/to/file > checksum.md5 `
3. Check the integrety of that checksum (Another cup of coffee is recommended):   
`# md5sum -c checkmd5.md5 `
4. Compare the output hash with the provided one.

NEE MD5: 0238609F7D0AB1C19C1E676FC7E70D0B

NEE SHA1: 5DEE526463F7F3F5F8A6021BF0924843E0F2D95B

## Using Mac (Not yet tested)   
_by @AzureOrange_

1. Open your Terminal
2. Create a checksum of your image:   
` md5 -r /PATH/to/file `
3. Compare the output hash with the provided one.
